In this video, we're going to take a look at how we can add in a test to make sure that the new handler
in the update handler are both actually publishing events.
So to get started, I'm going to go back to my underscore underscore MOX, Nat's wrapper file.
Inside there, we've got that fake implementation of the publish function.
So if we really want to make sure that we are somehow publishing an event off two units, we really
are going to want to make sure that this function right here truly gets executed.
If this thing gets called, that means that we are 100% trying to actually publish an event.
So rather than providing this fake implementation, this function, we're going to instead provide a
mock function.
A mock function is essentially a fake function, but it allows us to make tests around it or make expectations
around it.
So we can expect that a mock function gets executed or that it gets executed with some particular argument.
So I'm going to delete our little fake implementation and I will replace that with just FME.
That is how we create a mock.
This is going to return a new function.
And assign it to the property of publish.
That is a function that can be called from anything inside of our application.
And that function internally is going to keep track of whether or not it has been called, what arguments
it's been provided and so on, so we can make some expectations around it.
Now, if we try to run our code like this right now, none of our tasks or a lot of our tests are not
going to actually pass.
And the reason for that is that, remember, eventually our publisher, the base publisher, is going
to try to call this function and it's going to provide a callback function.
That callback callback function must be invoked for the publisher to think that everything went A-OK.
So it's not quite enough to just provide this fake function because even though it will be invoked,
it needs to take the callback function that it will be provided and call it.
In other words, we need to still do this right here, so we need to still do this.
But we also want to have a mock function.
So to kind of do both them together, to have a mock function and have a custom implementation, here's
what we're going to write out.
We're going to put in Gest FN and then we'll chain on mock implementation.
And then to this, we're going to provide a function.
So this is the actual function that will be invoked when someone tries to run, publish.
When someone tries to run, publish, it's still going to keep track of the fact that this thing was
invoked, the number of times it was invoked, what arguments it was provided, and that will allow
us to run some tests and whatnot.
But we will also be able to execute this function right here, taken that callback and invoke it to
make sure that the base publisher is still happy.
Now we do still have to provide the same kind of function right here.
So this thing is going to be invoked by the base publisher, which means it's going to receive a subject
that is a string data, that is a string and a callback function as well.
That is of type function that doesn't return anything.
Then inside the function body, once again, all we're going to do is execute callback.
Now, if we save this right now.
All of our tests should still run the same.
I'm going to go back over to my test suite.
Yep.
Looks like everything is still running as expected.
But now we can also start to write out some assertions and make sure that that published function is
actually being invoked.
Let me show you how.
Back inside of my new test file, I'm going to find Root's underscore, underscore, test, new tests.
I'm going to go down to the very bottom of this thing.
And I'm going to write out a new expectation or a new test.
I'll say it publishes an event.
I'm going to mark that function as async.
And then inside of here I want to try to successfully create a new ticket.
And then after creating the ticket, we're going to try to take a look at that fake function, the one
we just put together, the mock one.
And we're going to make sure that thing that that thing was actually invoked.
But to actually create a ticket, I'm going to go up to the test that we wrote out just before.
I'm going to copy where we created a title and then made a request to create a ticket with the title
and a given price and expected to get back a response of 201.
I'm going to copy all that and paste it down inside my test.
So then right after we successfully make this request, right after that, we should be able to say
that the published function was called.
So to do so, we're going to go to the very top of the file and we're going to import the fake net's
wrapper.
Now, when I say fake, we're actually going to import the real Nats wrapper.
But once again, just even inside of our test file is going to redirect that import for us and it's
going to instead give us the mock.
We're going to try to get the real Nats wrapper, but it's going to give us the mock one instead.
I'm going to import.
That's rapper Rum up one directory up another.
Nats Dash rapper.
Then down inside the test we just wrote, right now let's just do a console log of Nat's wrapper, and
I want you to see something really interesting.
Okay?
So let's save this.
I'm going to flip back over.
Now we're going to see a lot of console logs right here.
But one of them we should see with a really big console log and here it is right here.
So it's right underneath the pass statement for new tests.
Here's the console log we just did.
Do you notice that this is the fake implementation we just put together?
This is the contents of the fake or the mock net's wrapper file, though.
It's some plain object that has a client property, that has an object that is a published function,
and the publish thing is a mock function.
That's what all this stuff is right here.
So these are a bunch of helpers that are going to allow us to make sure that this thing was actually
called, it was invoked with some certain arguments and so on.
So now we can actually write out an expectation down here at the very bottom.
I'm going to put down here expect that's rapper.
Dot client dot publish to have been called.
That's how we're going to test this thing and make sure.
That the published function actually successfully gets invoked right after creating a ticket.
Before testing this out at our terminal.
One other very quick thing to do.
Go inside of our net's wrapper file.
We created this mock implementation exactly one time.
The same mock function gets reused for every single one of our tests.
So usually between each of our tests we want to reset this mock function.
Remember, the mock function internally is going to record how many times it gets called the different
arguments it is provided and so on.
And we're going to eventually write out some different expectations about those number of calls, the
arguments and so on.
We want to make sure that between every single test, we reset that data so we're not somehow running
a test and polluting one test with data from another test.
Long story short back inside of our test set up to file.
That's what we're doing.
All of our initial test config.
We're going to find RB for each statement and inside there we will write out just clear all box.
Just have to do that one time.
That's pretty much it.
All right, so let's save this.
Go back over to our terminal and we're going to make sure that all of our tests are passing in specific.
The new test suite right there.
Yep.
Looks like it's good.
That means we are successfully calling that publish function.
Cool well before continuing on because that's pretty much it.
I just want to put a very similar test inside of our update file as well and make sure that the publish
function gets called.
So I'm going to go to my update test file at the very top.
I will import Nat's wrapper.
From up one directory up another.
That's repr.
I'm then going to go down to the bottom of the file.
I'll add in.
It publishes an event.
Then inside of here, we want to try to successfully edit or update a ticket and then we will make sure
that the published function got invoked.
So we can very easily come back up to the previous test.
We'll just take some code right here.
It looks like this one right here was around testing to make sure a ticket was actually updated, but
can take everything from cookie on down to right after we do the update with the put, we got cookie
one request, second request.
I'm going to copy all that.
Go down to the bottom.
The file.
Hey, settle in.
And then right after we'll do an expect that's rapper.
Quite a loss to have been dealt.
All right, let's save that.
Run these tests as well, and make sure that the update is passing.
And where is it?
Yeah, there it is right there.
Update is passing.
Let's say we are good to go.
Okay, so that's pretty much it.
Well, we've got a working test suite now.
We also have the ability to add in tests around publishing events, which is just fantastic.
So let's take a pause right here.
And as usual, continue in just a minute.